<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**

- [Test data](#test-data)
  - [Domain descriptions](#domain-descriptions)
    - [hru_1](#hru_1)
    - [drb_2yr](#drb_2yr)
    - [ucb_2yr](#ucb_2yr)
    - [sagehen_5yr](#sagehen_5yr)
  - [Generating data](#generating-data)
  - [Domain directories](#domain-directories)
  - [Domain YAML file](#domain-yaml-file)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

# Test data

This directory contains data to be used by the tests in `../autotest`. The
`generate/` directory provides programs to generate test data not included
in the repository but which are critical to the autotests.

## Domain descriptions
The following are general descriptions of the test data domain directories.

### hru_1
This is the second (index 1 in python) HRU in the NHM CONUS domain. It is meant
to be small spatially but long in time. The record is 40 years. It tests
the NHM configuration with and without depression storage.

### drb_2yr
A test domain of smaller spatial size and 2 years duration. It tests the NHM
configuration with and without depression storage.

### ucb_2yr
A test domain of larger spatial size and 2 years duration. It tests the NHM
configuration with and without depression storage.

### sagehen_5yr
A test domain of small size and a 5 year duration. It will eventually tests
the cascades functionality in pywatershed. With cascades turned off (the
sagehen_no_cascades.control file) the domain tests depression storage off,
dunnian flow and sroff in the soilzone, preferential flow, and pptmix in the
canopy (only depression storage off is tested by the other domains and
configurations).

## Generating data

Generating test data should now be done from the `autotest/` directory with
the following command:

```shell
python generate_test_data.py -n=auto
```

or as described in the [`autotest/README.md`](../autotest/README.md).Should
problems arise with the above, additional details are provided below.

In general, `autotest/generate_test_data.py` is a wrapper that calls the
scripts in `test_data/generate`. It as a few of its own arguments and passes
all other arguments along to pytest. The only additional thing that
`generate_test_data.py` handles are dot files like
`test_data/.test_data_version_{domain_name}.txt` which
indicate by their existence that test data has been generated for a domain
and by their contents the `version.txt` file from the root of the repository
which was available when created.

Scripts in the `test_data/generate/` subdirectory, which create and destroy
test data are: 

* `remove_output_dirs.py`
* `run_prms_domains.py`
* `convert_prms_output_to_nc.py`
* `remove_prms_csvs.py`

The first and last remove data and are generally only used to support testing
in CI. The "run" and "convert" are the core scripts for generating the
test data.

The `run_prms_domains.py` scripts uses binaries provided in the pywatershed
repository to run reference models, specifically the PRMS v5.2.1 binary. All
domains included in the the 'test_data/' directory will be run with
the binary (unless the `--domain` option is exercised) and the output
generated by the binary then becomes test answers or reference data for
pytest autotests. The `convert_prms_output_to_nc.py` simply converts
the output from the first step to NetCDF format and also calculates a few
derived variables, providing the actual data sources used by `autotest`.

It is possible that the included binaries will not work on your system.
For a failing PRMS 5.2.1 binary, please see [`prms_src/prms5.2.1/README.md`](../prms_src/prms5.2.1/README.md).
If you compile yourself, you'll need to copy `prms_src/prms5.2.1/bin/prms`
to `bin/` while renaming it to one of the existing files found therein.
Currently, supplied binaries are all compiled with gfortran except on
Mac ARM architecture where ifort is used.

## Domain directories

Additional domains may be supplied by the user for autotesting by
pywatershed. Also note that evaluation of pywatershed against PRMS in
the notebook `examples/03_compare_pws_prms.ipynb` uses this approach
as well. To supply your own domain, you must generate the required
files in `test_data/your_domain` given in this listing:

```
control.test  prcp.cbh      sf_data       tmax.nc       tmin.nc
myparam.param prcp.nc       tmax.cbh      tmin.cbh
```

The `*.cbh` files must be pre-converted to netcdf for `prcp`, `tmin`,
and `tmax`. How to do this can be found near the top of notebook
`examples/02_prms_legacy_models.ipynb`. The `control.test` and
`myparam.param` files are used by both PRMS and PWS. The `control.test`
files in the repository are specific for being able to run sub-models in
pywatershed and include a nearly maximal amount of model output
(time-inefficient for both PRMS and PWS but necessary or pywatershed
autotests). The stock control files can be found in `test_data/common`.
There is a file for single-HRU domains and multi-HRU domains and these
are identical (as appropriate) for the domains included in the
repository.

## Domain YAML file
The contents of the `domain/domain.yaml` file is described in the
[`autotest/README.md`](../autotest/README.md)