---
layout: post
title: ""
date: 2024-11-14 14:20:00 -0700
categories: releases
tags: 2.0.0
---

# Version 2.0.0 Extended Release Notes

These are the extended release notes. The official release notes are found
[here](https://github.com/EC-USGS/pywatershed/releases/tag/2.0.0).

## Purpose and scope of pywatershed version 2.0.0

These notes summarize the more detailed [What's New for version 2.0.0](https://pywatershed.readthedocs.io/en/latest/whats-new.html#v2-2-0-14-november-2024) in the documentation.

### `FlowGraph`
The primary new capability introduced is the `FlowGraph` and its related classes.
The `FlowGraph` allow users to combine different kinds flow solutions on `FlowNodes` in
arbitrary order. While `FlowGraph`s may be constructed from scratch, a common use case
(demonstrated in a new example notebook, 06) is to add a reservoir representation
into an existing `FlowGraph` which is equivalent to `PRMSChannel`. The STARFIT
reservoir representation is implemented as a `FlowNode` which can be added into
the `FlowGraph`. Other `FlowNodes` implemented are `PassThroughFlowNode` and
`ObsInFlowNode`. The second reproduces the "obsin" capabilities present in PRMS.
Please see the [`FlowGraph` documentation](https://pywatershed.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api/generated/pywatershed.FlowGraph.html#pywatershed.FlowGraph) for additional details.


### Additional PRMS functionalities
- Subclasses of PRMSRunoff, PRMSSoilzone, and PRMSGroundwater are available
  which do not include depression storage: PRMSRunoffNoDprst, PRMSSoilzoneNoDprst, and PRMSGroundwaterNoDprst.
- Dunnian flow is implemented in PRMSSoilzone and is 2-way coupled to PRMSRunoff.
- Preferential flow is implemented in PRMSSoilzone.


### `MmrToMf6Dfw`
The `MmrToMf6Dfw` class builds a MF6 1-D channel (CHF) simulation using diffusive wave
DFW) routing from PRMS NHM input files and a few simple assumptions. The
lateral (to-channel) fluxes from a PRMS are used as time varying boundary
conditions. A new example notebook (07) runs the Delaware River Basin using MF6 CFH-DFW.


### Breaking Changes
The parameter `pref_flow_infil_frac` is now a required parameter input for PRMSSoilzone. The
NHM values assumed previously are zeros on all HRUs.
